### Conceptual Exercise

Answer the following questions below:

- What is a JWT?

JSON web token - a generated token that can be used to check for authorization.

- What is the signature portion of the JWT?  What does it do?

The signature portion of the JWT tells the user that the JWT was generated by our server and that the payload wasn't changed.

- If a JWT is intercepted, can the attacker see what's inside the payload?

Yes - JWTs are not encrypted, they are serialized.

- How can you implement authentication with a JWT?  Describe how it works at a high level.

A user will supply login details (typically username & password) on a post request to our server. Using a encryption service like bycrpt the server then checks to see if the encrypted (salted & hashed) password supplied matches the encrypted password in our DB. If this is true, the server will create a JWT (signed with our secret key) for the user containing information about the user (including things like admin status) and send it back to the browser. The browser stores this information in the header, any subsequent requests to the server for pages requiring authorization, a check is made to make sure the JWT is valid & the user has access to view the page.

- Compare and contrast unit, integration and end-to-end tests.

Unit testing is testing individual pieces of our code, like a single function to ensure that the input & outputs are working as intended. Limited scope means writing tests are simpler.

Integration testing is testing multiple parts of our function together, to ensure that a single implementation (containing multiple functions) of our application is working as intended.

End to End testing tests the entire application as a hole, is harder to test and write code for.

- What is a mock? What are some things you would mock?

Mocks are faked data that we can use to pass into our unit tests. Mocks are used to speed up testing and simplify our unit tests to be sure that our test is only testing the part of the code we are writing a test for. We can mock data returned from an API call for example, to make our tests faster & lighten the load on the server (if we are testing hundreds of functions that all call on an API, this will be useful.). Also if we are relying on an external API for our tests, if the API happens to be down our tests will fail.

- What is continuous integration?

Continuous integration refers to the process of multiple developers attempting to merge their code changes to the main code repository of a project.

- What is an environment variable and what are they used for?

Environment variables are variables we can set on our local machine, to be used in our apps. Things such as SECRET KEY & PGPASSWORD can be set by using command export VARIABLENAME=""

- What is TDD? What are some benefits and drawbacks?

TDD stands for Test driven development. It is the practice of writing tests for your code, before you write your code. This can be a good way to make sure that your code functions as initially intended. TDD can be beneficial in the intitial planning of your code, but can have issues when refactoring code, or implementing new features.

- What is the value of using JSONSchema for validation?

JSONSchema helps validate our information (ie: string data should be string, or length of string should be no longer than x many of characters, or password field should contain special character... etc.) before we send off our information to the database. It acts like an initial data check before we query our DB. This prevents the server from throwing an error.

- What are some ways to decide which code to test?

Typically we would want full coverage of our tests, however some code should be tested more than others. If your code for any reason could throw an error, we would want to test every possible way we could "break" it and make sure we are handling the errors in a useful way. Or if your code takes in many parameters we would want to be sure that the code functions as intended with several different inputs.

- What does `RETURNING` do in SQL? When would you use it?

In SQL, some database commands do not return any information. For example, "INSERT INTO" command will not provide us any information about the added content. This is where RETURNING comes in handy, to return values we can use.

- What are some differences between Web Sockets and HTTP?

Web Sockets are a continous connection between the server & the browser, whereas an HTTP request is a one time request.

- Did you prefer using Flask over Express? Why or why not (there is no right
  answer here --- we want to see how you think about technology)?

I think I am leaning towards Express. Although Flask & Python seems to require less syntax I find I run into less errors using libraries (ie: compatability issues with Flask version & version of downloaded library such as FlaskSQLAlchemy);

Although so far we've only made back end APIs, and haven't done front end development. In Flask we had many cool features such as WTForms and Jinja templating.
